Content and Formatting Changes to Knative Kubernetes Services (#1522) (#1536)
knative/docs: docs/serving/knative-kubernetes-services.md

type: "docs"
---

> This guide describes the components that are active when running Knative Serving.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide describes the [Kubernetes Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/) that are active when running Knative Serving.
```

Reviewer: Since K8s services are a particular kind of thing, let's use that terminology here instead of components.

> ## Before You Begin

Reviewer: Good instincts here with showing users how they'd even get a service running in the first place! But I'd recommend doing this slightly differently. Since this is conceptual content, I'd recommend saying something like, "This guide assumes you already have a Knative Service running. If you don't, see Getting Started With App Deplyoment[link]." And then remove the steps you added. That way we're not duplicating content that exists eleswhere, and this page can have a strong focus on explaining what the various running services are.

1. Install Knative Serving. Instructions on how to do this are located 
   [here](https://knative.dev/docs/install/knative-custom-install/).

> 2. Verify that you have the proper components in your cluster. To view the services installed in your cluster, use the commmand:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To view the services installed in your cluster, use the commmand:
```

Reviewer: The second part of the sentence is a great intro to the next command. Keep that part! :)

   ```sh
   $ kubectl get services -n knative-serving
   ```

   This should return the following output:

   ```sh
NAME                TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                  AGE
activator-service   ClusterIP   10.96.61.11      <none>        80/TCP,81/TCP,9090/TCP   1h
autoscaler          ClusterIP   10.104.217.223   <none>        8080/TCP,9090/TCP        1h
controller          ClusterIP   10.101.39.220    <none>        9090/TCP                 1h
webhook             ClusterIP   10.107.144.50    <none>        443/TCP                  1h
```

>  3. To view the deployments in your cluster, use the following command:

Reviewer: I'm a fan of this intro to the command, too.

webhook                  1         1         1            1           1h
```

> These serivces and deployments are installed by the `serving.yaml` file during install. The next section describes the function of these components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These services and deployments are installed by the `serving.yaml` file during install. The next section describes their function.
```

> ## Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Services
```

Reviewer: Oh, and this is still valid ^

### Service: activator

> The activator is responsible for receiving & buffering requests for inactive revisions and reporting metrics to the autoscaler. In addition, it retries requests to a revision after the autoscaler scales the revision based on the reported metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The activator is responsible for receiving & buffering requests for inactive revisions and reporting metrics to the autoscaler. It also retries requests to a revision after the autoscaler scales the revision based on the reported metrics.
```

### Service: autoscaler

The autoscaler receives request metrics and adjusts the number of pods required to handle the load of traffic.

### Service: controller

> The controller service reconciles all the public knative objects and autoscaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The controller service reconciles all the public Knative objects and autoscaling
```

CRDs. When a user applies a Knative service to the Kubernetes API, this creates

> the configuration and route. It will convert the configuration into revisions, and the revisions into Deployment and Knative Pod Autoscaling (KPA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the configuration and route. It will convert the configuration into revisions and the revisions into deployments and Knative Pod Autoscalers (KPAs).
```

### Service: webhook

The webhook intercepts all Kubernetes API calls as well as all CRD insertions and updates.
It sets default values, rejects inconsitent and invalid objects, and validates and mutates Kubernetes API calls.

### Deployment: networking-certmanager

The certmanager reconciles cluster ingresses into cert manager objects.

### Deployment: networking-istio

> The networking-istio deployment reconciles a cluster's ingress into a virtual service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The networking-istio deployment reconciles a cluster's ingress into an [Istio virtual service](https://istio.io/docs/reference/config/networking/v1alpha3/virtual-service/).
```

## What's Next

> 1. For a deeper look at the services and deployments involved in Knative Serving, click [here](https://github.com/knative/serving/blob/master/docs/spec/overview.md#service).

Reviewer: Nice! Love that you added this section. I'd vote for making this an unordered list (just bullets), though.

> - For a high-level analysis of Serving, look at the [documentation here](../)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a high-level analysis of Serving, look at the [documentation here](./).
```

Reviewer: Fixing relative link + adding period

> - For a high-level analysis of Serving, look at the [documentation here](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For a high-level analysis of Serving, look at the [documentation here](../)
```

Reviewer: For links to content in the Docs repo, we use relative links. I missed that on the below link earlier; sorry! I think these are both correct, but it's easiest to check in Sublime. You should be able to render the page with alt + M on your Mac and check the links.

> - For a high-level analysis of Serving, look at the [Kubernetes documentation](https://Kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)

Reviewer: One last thing -- I'm not sure pointing folks to the Kubernetes docs here makes sense. I suggest removing the second bullet point. A Knative Service is different from a Kubernetes Service, although Knative Services use many Kubernetes Services under the hood to get things done.

> - Check out the Knative Seriving code samples [here](https://knative.dev/docs/serving/samples/) for more hands-on tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check out the Knative Seriving code samples [here](./samples/) for more hands-on tutorials.
```
